next we're going to take a look at the
diplomacy that's ongoing well right now
actually in the past week we have seen a
number of world leaders head to Israel
uh to offer support and try to
deescalate the crisis today it was
Emanuel macron of France France here he
is as you can see next to Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu he expressed
solidarity with Israel says the first
objective of the war should be to free
all hostages and he says it was Israel's
duty to fight against Hamas but he
warned against enlarging the conflict
let's take a listen I consider that this
is an International Coalition in order
to fight against these terrorist groups
that we have to
build I REM I just reminded my people in
my language what we discussed about
fight against terrorism humanitarian
action rules to be respected but as well
political process and obviously I warned
against an escalation and I want esbah
and some other regimes not to be part of
what's
happening I know how committed you are
let me Express once again my solidarity
my
friendship and the fact that France
stands with you so International
diplomacy in Israel also in New York too
a meeting of the UN Security Council is
under away un Secretary General Antonio
gues condemned the Hamas attacks and
said he was deeply concerned about what
he described as a clear violations of
international humanitarian law in Gaza
he said even War has rules and that the
Hamas attack on October 7th did not take
place in a vacuum nothing can justify
the deliberate killing injuring and
kidnapping of civilians or the launching
of rockets against civilian
targets all hostages must be treated
humanely and released immediately and
without
conditions it is important to also
recognize the attacks by amas did not
happen in a
vacuum the Palestinian people have been
subjected to 56 years of suffocating
occupation well the Israeli foreign
minister was not impressed with the
secretary uh General's comments take a
listen these kids witness orror which
cannot be described by
word Mr Secretary General
in what world do you
live definitely this is not our
world this is a terrorist of
Hamas what he said in there in Arabs he
telling to
his mother and
fathers that he's proud that he has
blood of 10 Jewish that he
murdered what monster they gave a birth
to Secretary General this is the world
that we live foreign minister Eli Cohen
there and in the last hour we have heard
that he has also cancelled a planned
meeting with Secretary General gues that
was scheduled for this evening we also
heard uh from the top Palestinian
Authority Diplomat the ongoing massacres
being deliberately and systematically
and savagely perpetrated by Israel the
occupying power against the Palestinian
civilian population under its illegal
occupation Must Be Stopped the security
Council has a duty to stop them the
International Community is obliged under
international law to stop them it is our
Collective human duty to to stop them
now continued failure at this council is
inexcusable and let's take you live to
New York to show you that uh the meeting
is still ongoing we are keeping our eyes
and ears across it whilst we do that
let's speak to Lieutenant General Mark
schz former US security coordinator for
Israel and the Palestinian Authority uh
who is now with the Rand Corporation an
American nonprofit or organization thank
you very much for coming on the
program thank you Lois it's good to be
with you can I just get your reaction
first of all just to the uh diplomacy
and the words we've heard from around
that table this
afternoon well I I think there are two
realities um certainly the reality that
uh you know from October 7th and what
the uh families of the victims of that
horrific terrorist attack and the
subsequent kidnapping of 200 Israelis
that are still being held by Hamas but
there's also the reality of the
Palestinian people and um I think it's
accurate and important to highlight uh
what is happening inside of Gaza uh
specifically with you know the impact of
the ongoing uh air and addiction
campaign for Preparation uh for the
ground offensive and as important but
not spoken a lot about are the ongoing
confrontations that are occurring
between the Israeli security forces and
the West Bank settlers provocations by
settlers in the West Bank and the
violence that's ensued over the course
of uh you know certainly well before
October 7th but in Earnest now since uh
the October 7th terrorist attack and and
I want to bring in the role of the US
here what in your eyes is the role what
what is it in practice in relation to
its uh strong Allied relationship with
Israel and what do you think it to be
trying to
do well
certainly as we know they're our
strongest Ally in the region and we're
giving unequivocal support to uh the
Israeli government certainly to the
military to include the recent
deployment of not only the two carrier
strike groups but also senior military
advisers to share our lessons uh that we
experienced in Iraq uh both in the initi
found as in Fusia and then subsequent to
the liberation of mosul from from Isis
so very important but also what we're
doing to emphasize the importance of
alleviating the humanitarian suffering
that's ongoing um in Gaza as well as
West Bank you know not welln but the US
has historically been the largest single
donor to support the Palestinian people
from both humanitarian assistance as
well as um security assistance in the
West Bank so I think it's important that
we continue to emphasize the rules of
law as it comes to uh Warfare but also
to do all we can in you know speaking
with Israel certainly but also the
broader International Community to
alleviate the humanitarian suffering
that's occurring in Gaza specifically
and there have been reports in Us Media
that the Biden Administration has been
urging Israel to delay any ground
incursion into Gaza more time for
hostage negotiations is the presumption
do you think that is happening or ought
to be
happening I I I there's certainly
dialogue occurring um while there's
ongoing discussions and negotiations and
we've seen you've just reported the
release now of four um hostages two
American and two Israeli and ideally
there will there will be many more um in
the coming days so I I do think while
dialogue ongoing it's important that um
the ground offensive is not does not
commence because once that occurs I
believe any type of dialogue with Hamas
with respect to releasing of the
hostages will cease um I think also
what's occurring behind the scenes is
the discussion of the Strategic
objective uh Beyond just
eliminating the Hamas military
capability and it's and the political
cap you know political structure of H
also what what is Gaza going to like in
the Palestinians subsequent to this land
uh okay will take place liutenant
General Mark Schwartz thank you very
much for your time we are right out of
time would appreciate your analysis
thank you I'm leis War Jones this is BBC
News